---
id: a2ba0586-42c8-45bb-a18f-4b2856af70dd
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'A whole article just about our cats'
author:
  - 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_by: 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_at: 1733816953
topics:
  - 30-in-30
---
Today's content is dedicated to the cat lovers, and should be a nice reprieve from yesterday's heavier content. 

As I go down the rabbit-hole of writing every day for 30 days, there's plenty of opportunity to try new types of content, as well as going deeper into the details of life to see what people find interesting. I wanted to share some photos and stories about our cats for the more cat-inclined readers. 

_Note: There are some gross stories in this article, I've tagged the most TMI ones so you can skip past them if you want. _

# Percy
Percy has the shortest legs you've ever seen on a domestic short-hair. He loves food and whinging. He's turning 7 soon.

## Percy's health problems
Did you know cat bodies can just decide to re-absorb their teeth? Feline Tooth Resorption (FTR) is a real condition that caused Percy to need a handful of extractions. Often the teeth look fine from the outside, but the damage will show up on x-rays. Even though this is a very painful condition, cats hide their pain as much as they can. So unless your vet does regular x-rays (and most don't) your cat could be in constant pain without you knowing. Make sure you get regular feline dental x-rays. Also, download the [feline grimace scale app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.universitedemontreal.felinegrimacescale&hl=en_AU&pli=1) to learn facial expressions that might indicate that your cat is in pain.

# Widget
Widget has no tail, and we think she might be a Manx.

## Widget's health problems
_Note: Mild TMI warning._
A genetically short (and by short, I mean non-existent) tail comes with inherent health problems. A short tail usually means a short spine. A short spine means problems sending signals around the body. A slight weakness in the muscles in her behind means she often unintentionally leaves "nuggets" around. Luckily the cleanup is simple and quick - a good diet helps!

There's a potential for further health complications as she gets older, especially if we're right about her being a Manx (still need to set aside some budget for a DNA test).

# Cat Drama
_Note: MAJOR TMI warning for this story._
Since buying our house last December, we've discovered a range of cats living in our complex. One of them, a black fluffy tomcat, seems to be a bit of a troublemaker. He's extremely friendly with strange humans, but gets into fights with the local cats.

To make matters worse (don't worry, it gets worser), we're pretty sure he's been living part-time in our roof! We bought a ladder, but need a longer one to get in the ceiling to look around and potentially seal off the gap. If you know someone who specialises in... this type of problem... please send me their details!

Okay, now for the real meat of this story. Last warning to tune out if you need to. 

In September, the night before we flew to Gold Coast for the national Barbershop festival, we were standing in the living room when suddenly a grate in the ceiling started dripping... and dripping... the tomcat emptied his entire god-damned bladder in the ceiling right above our TV and stereo!

As you can imagine, it was a nightmare to clean up, especially while we were meant to be packing. We tried to put some measures in place to prevent further issues, but there wasn't much more we could do. We flew off the next morning, for a whole two weeks. 

It was stressful for us for sure, but our cats really took the majority of the stress. Can you imagine how they must have felt? The enemy isn't just surrounding us, but above us! In every direction! Shut the doors! Bar the windows! So that's what they did... At least, the only way a cat knows how... 

Percy began marking the walls obsessively, coming back even to the same spots minutes later. It was yet another nightmare to clean up after him as well. We confined him to thee bathroom for our sanity. And for his. He could feel safe in there. Since then, we've also medicated him to lower his stress even further, and as a result he's been allowed to roam the house again, but the tomcat is still an ongoing problem.