---
id: b607b3d2-56bf-4eea-87cb-0c3275decc5e
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'My experience with Statamic so far'
author:
  - 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_by: 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_at: 1733819215
---
I'm still new to Statamic, but in just a few months I've already used it for two quite different websites. I wanted to share my experience with Statamic, for those of you considering it (maybe considering a switch away from WP?)

# New Choir Concierge website (coming soon)
This project is the marketing site for my side hustle, Choir Concierge. The current site is built in WordPress, but Victoria is working on a new one, and she's learning on the job!

divi
- liked easy content creation with divi
- initially liked the styling options
- grew to hate how often i needed to override styles with hacky css
vision for statamic
- wanted a similar content creation experience, keep content simple and block-based
- wanted to move styles into code, quickly style things with templates and tailwind

getting started
- vic wanted to replace the wp site
- create a new design in figma
- volunteered to learn more html/css and learn statmic/laravel/php and some js

- i did the initial software setup, composer install and basic cms config
- then i began to piece together how our blocks would work
- we use bard, then create a new (module? section?) in the blueprint.
- we have a template for bard pages that dynamically loads another template with the name of the module.
- so making new modules is as easy as making the blueprint, then making a template with the same name.
- after I did this once, I worked with vic to do it once or twice more. 
- then she was off! at the time of writing this, vic has built the entire site. we're almost ready to launch. I'll handle making the contact form, plus I need to try and bug some 

# This blog
This site is a far simpler project compared to the previous one, but it also has different needs. I wanted to avoid the typical developer trap of spending more time developing the blog than writing on it. I wanted to just get it done and get writing! I wanted to use statamic again, this time with a starter kit. I just used the free first-party blogging starter kit, [Cool Writings](https://statamic.com/starter-kits/statamic/cool-writings). Instead of a block editor, I just write in markdown, which is fine for 99% of my blogging. 

The blog is where I did notice some slight annoyances though:

# Draft/scheduled posts
Drafts appear to be a feature in the free version, but don't work. Without being properly called out, this was a nasty surprise. It's not clear what the expected behaviour is meant to be until it happens. If you mark a post as a draft, then push the repo, the prod version of the cp will pretend the post just doesn't exist. The same thing happens for schedule posts, which won't auto-publish in prod, but they WILL auto-publish when saving the post locally, which in one case resulted in me publishing without realising it. I shouldn't be too bothered about a finished post being auto-published when that's exactly what I want, except as soon as I realised the setting wouldn't do anything on the free plan I forgot it existed, and started editing a "finished" post (perfectionism at its finest).

I'm not a huge fan of this approach to freemium, but at the very least, it would be very helpful to make it clear to users how these features will work. A quick warning "hey, I see you tried to draft/schedule this post. just FYI that because you're on the free plan, the post won't appear in production, and will only publish when you hit save". I would also argue that drafting is probably very relevant to the free-tier audience and should just be free, but I guess people can always just use git.