---
id: ec479e98-cf59-47a4-acc7-c15e60b56c5f
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'Barbershop is great at conferences'
author:
  - 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
topics:
  - 30-in-30
  - singing
updated_by: 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_at: 1733623537
---
In my first blog post, I wrote about many different things. People seemed most interested in my work in singing, so today I'm going to go deeper on my experience, and I'll explain what the heck Barbershop music is and why it's great for meeting people.

# My history with singing
I've been performing for as long as I can remember, but things really kicked off in the seventh grade, when my singing teacher asked me to audition for her musical, "Pirates of Tweed Heads", a Gilbert and Sullivan spoof. That spawned a 10+ year career in musical theatre, and because of my ~bossy~ creative streak I ended up seeking out leadership positions, leading to being Musical Director (as in the director of the music and singing, not the director of the musical itself, that's someone else above my pay grade though I was working towards it) for a handful of shows.

During one of these musicals, a fellow cast member told me I simplify _had_ to try his choir, The Blenders Youth Chorus (BYC). I obliged, and fell in love with barbershop and a cappella. I became a member of BYC and also the larger Blenders, and again found myself rising the ranks from music team contributor to leader of the Lead section to Assistant Music Director (AMD). For a while, I also ran a business teaching singing ("Vocal Sensei" it was called). I even became Director of another a cappella choir, Voice Weavers, right up until I made the life-changing decision to move to Perth. 

My mum asked me if I knew what I was going to do once I moved to Perth. Did I have friends? Hobbies? In almost a panic, I knew there was at least one thing I had to do - I googled "The Baden Street Singers". I had seen them at the Barbershop national festival, a young, talented, mixed-gender group of singers. I booked my audition for the day after I flew to Perth, I started rehearsals the week after that, and another few weeks later I performed with them at their planetarium concert "Under the Stars: Part 2".

My time with Voice Weavers had been stressful near the end, with the threat of covid we'd switched to online rehearsals, and Zoom was challenging. I think if I'd stuck around, I'd have reached the light at the end of the tunnel, but the downside of leaving for Perth when I did was closing that chapter at the toughest point rather than seeing it through. Deflated and lacking confidence, I wanted to remain "just" a singer for a while once I joined Baden Street. But I couldn't help myself. Before I knew it I was on music teams and committees and assisting the Director again. 

# What the heck is barbershop singing?
Barbershop music is a subgenre of a cappella (think "2 P's, 2 L's, 2 words and you'll remember the spelling forever). A cappella ("in the style of the church" in latin/italian) is a styled originating in ancient cathedral music, and has come to mean "singing without other instruments or accompaniment". The type of pop a cappella you see in Pitch Perfect is called "contemporary a cappella", and has some things in common with modern barbershop singing. 

The genre has a few key features (that rarely differ, because the competition scene has a fairly strict definition):
- There are always four vocal parts (even for barbershop choirs), called Tenor, Lead, Baritone, Bass (in barbershop, these terms are gender-neutral).
- The melody part is entirely in the Lead (or the Baritone)
- The four parts work together to tune incredibly precisely, aiming to align overtones to produce more overtones, often sounding like a magical "fifth note"
- The style is almost entirely lyrical (as opposed to contemporary a cappella which is known for heavier use of doos and dahs etc), and treats the lyrical meaning with care and consideration

At this point, you may be picturing some old dudes in boater hats. The hats rarely make an appearance these days ([though Disneyland insist on keeping the stereotype alive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Dapper_Dans_(28382069095).jpg)), and while there are still plenty of oldies, there are also loads of younger people, and the style itself has a tendency to be [powerful and athletic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qukygSQjQTw) at times. The history of barbershop is long and colourful, but suffice it to say that in 2024 in Australia barbershop can be sung by anyone.

# How barbershop can help you meet people