---
id: d5290319-d4d0-4012-918e-63f8abb2e474
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'DnD vs The Burning Wheel'
author:
  - 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
topics:
  - 30-in-30
  - board-games
updated_by: 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_at: 1735523457
---
Role-playing games are becoming increasingly popular. For most people, that means learning Dungeons and Dragons. Most people stick with DnD, unaware of the array of alternatives. One in particular has caught my eye, one that I'd like to share with 3q: The Burning Wheel.

# Overview
The Burning Wheel is a difficult game that heavily prioritises roleplay over combat. When compared directly with DnD, it will be evident that DnD is instead primarily a combat game that people use for roleplay.

# Beliefs, Instincts and Traits
These three elements are the heart of your character, and for me they're also the heart of Burning Wheel. Your characters must have real goals and ambitions, and the game will directly reward you for working towards them. 

## Beliefs
You must decide on your character's top three priorities. For example, the belief "I am the true king of this land" doesn't make it true but gives your character a burning desire to de-throne the king. These are also indications to the GM of how you'd like to play the game. Typically, you'll be rewarded every session that you contribute directly to one of your beliefs. You may also change your beliefs to signal character growth.

## Instincts
Your Instincts are pre-programmed reactions and behaviours, like "If surprised, I draw my sword", or "I will always protect children". Usually stemming from your Beliefs, these Instincts are useful mechanical shortcuts in the game as well as storytelling. In the first example, the GM usually can't claim that your character is unarmed. 

Of course, you can choose to ignore or disable your instinct if the situation calls for it, but if you choose to follow it and that gets you in trouble somehow, the game rewards you (more on that later).

## Traits
Traits are the most prominent aspects of your character. They are the things that make them unique. There are three kinds of Traits:
### Character Traits
These are very prominent aspects of your appearance of personality. The "Hairy" trait means you're the hairiest person for miles, while the "Determined" means your determination has no match throughout the land.

### Call-On Traits