---
id: 11af2cc5-55dd-486a-9372-8b5fabce6135
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'Self-advocacy - The road to diagnosis'
author:
  - 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_by: 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_at: 1733726665
---
An important statistic I learned recently: about 30% of all healthcare is wasteful and fails to produce a helpful outcome, while a whopping 10% of all healthcare produces an actively harmful outcome. Anecdotally, this seems to be even worse for mental health outcomes. Knowing that stat, we still need to work with the system we have, so what can we do about it? We need to play an active role in our own health and form deep partnerships with our healthcare providers.

_This article may be more controversial than usual, but it's a topic I'm passionate about. My goal here is not to target the health system, but to empower people to better work with the system for their own health. _

# Understand your own body
There is always a line to be drawn, where "Doctor Google" helps you make the wrong decisions. But it always helps to know just enough about your condition to know things like which symptoms are more important and when your doctor is overlooking key information. 

# Form partnerships with your providers
## Be picky
Be selective about who your trust with your health. As much as possible, find providers with a good reputation, sit down with them for an appointment, then take note of whether they listen and respond to your concerns, and generally whether the conversation flows easily. This starts with your GP. This is the most important place to "shop around" initially, because once you find the right one you're going to stick with them for a long time. In my case though, I choose a specific clinic rather than a specific GP there, because the clinic had a brilliant reputation and specialised in working with transgender and neurodivergent healthcare.

# Trust your instincts