---
id: 0dd72aba-2009-4355-ba38-c1dc9437d16c
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'My 2024 Wrap-up'
author:
  - 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_by: 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_at: 1735618073
topics:
  - 30-in-30
excerpt: "This was a year of changes and growth. I've given myself many challenges; some paid off, others haven't. Let's look back at my struggles and big wins of 2024."
featured_image: content/friendmas-2024.jpeg
---
This year, for me, has been a year of changes and growth. I've given myself many challenges this year, some of them paid off, and others have left me in the dirt. Let's take a look back at my struggles and big wins from 2024.

# Choir Stuff
For the first time in more than 10 years, I found myself wondering if I should step back from singing Barbershop. In 2024, I overcommitted to singing, between choir directing, choir committees, choir marketing, quartet singing, and training to become a judge. In the 3rd quarter of the year, I started feeling burnt out. As a result, I stopped everything to focus on recovery. Only now, just in time for the end of the year, I've started feeling like I can switch things back on again, being very careful not to take on too much.

# Career stuff
I set myself a few ambitious career goals this year - I wanted to speak at a conference (preferably Laracon), I wanted to make a good impression at work, and I wanted to raise my profile as a developer especially in the Laravel space. 

I think I've mostly achieved all of those goals. At work, I've contributed to a major launch, I've stepped up to run our chapter/guild meetings, and I've once again stepped up to fill in on another team. I wasn't accepted to speak at Laracon AU 2024, but I was accepted at DDD Perth. My first ever conference talk! I still went to Laracon AU as an attendee - it was a highlight of my year, and I met lots of fantastic people. I helped start the Perth Laravel Meetup, which held quarterly meetings this year and will continue in a new format next year. I also started this blog, which has both served as a career thing and a creative outlet. The 30-in-30 challenge was ambitious especially after a period of burnout, but it was exciting, it was new, and most importantly it was only for a short while.

# Creation
Creativity is still a major part of my life, but this year I experienced a changed in the ways I wanted to create things. I was unsuccessful in my goal to re-commit to Choir Concierge and contribute to it more. Instead, I found myself wanting to try [board game design](/trying-my-hand-at-board-game-design) as part of my passion for board games. For 2025, I think I'd like to try and balance these 2 creative outlets, and give some of my attention to both of them.

# Home life
At the end of last year, we bought a house! We're lucky to finally become homeowners. This year we spent a lot of time gardening, buying additional furniture, and improving our new home.

I also started reading regularly again! It started as a surprise. I began reading Victoria's favourite series - Warriors - in secret, and now that the secret is out I still need to finish the series and I've bought a few other books too. It's great stopping to rest and read, but I struggle to make the time for it.

Finally, 2024 marked some big steps in my gender transition. I started electrolysis, an excrutiating but effective method of permanent hair removal. I revamped my wardrobe again, getting closer to a style of clothing that feels right. Overall, I've felt much more comfortable in myself this year. It was comforting to [look back at my early transition](/my-thoughts-on-exploring-gender-identity) and see just how far I've come. 

# 2025
This year, I did a lot. Too much, even. I want 2025 to be a year of consolidation. Instead of going wide on many interests, I'd like to go deeper on a few of them, while still making time for rest and time to spend with family and friends. I'm aiming to make 2025 a year of balance.