---
id: 72991261-c7d3-4870-b525-4a817f54c094
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'Trans Voice Feminisation Training for Barbershop Singers'
author:
  - 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
topics:
  - 30-in-30
  - gender
  - singing
updated_by: 9bdb0db4-21c2-47e2-8b40-7df4732b3849
updated_at: 1734884355
---
Voice feminisation training is a challenging aspect of gender transition. Even more so for singers, and especially for barbershop. The unique requirements of this genre of music sometimes contradict the requirements of voice feminisation work, so more care must be taken to navigate the combined process. 

Despite being an important part of transition, and despite trans voice training being increasingly available worldwide, there are no resources available for singers specifically in the barbershop style. I may be the first person in the world to write about this topic. Join me as pioneeers as we take a first step together into this field.

Before we start, a disclaimer - although I have experience with voice feminisation and Barbershop singing and singing coaching, I'm not an expert in any of these topics. I will refer to existing references where possible, but this specific combination of topics has no precedent. Someone has to be the first to write about it. Hopefully, someone smarter than me can take this article and make something better and more detailed. 

# Why is this important?
Your voice is one of your most recognisable traits. In many situations, your voice is the first or only part of you that other people will experience. On the phone, your voice is who you are.

The same can be true for your gender. Of the millions of subconscious signals people interpret to decide what gender they think you are, your voice contains many of them. On the phone: all of them.

Reminder: Every person's gender transition is different, and every person's gender is different. Not all transgender women will want to change their voice, and some will choose surgery instead of training. With that said, voice feminisation training is still a crucial aspect of transition for many trans women.

## Why only women?
Gendered voice training does exist for masculine transgender people, and some of the information in this article would be useful for them when applied in reverse, but this group of people is smaller as many/most trans men achieve a deeper voice simply by taking testosterone, which causes thickening of the vocal folds (which estrogen can't reverse for trans women).

For the purposes of this article, I will be focusing on the feminine voice, but feel free to adapt any techniques or information that you find helpful. 

# Background
## What is Voice Training for Trans people?
### Overview
- voice training / voice femme
- aims to achieve gendered voice without surgery
- speaking voice and/or singing voice
- singing mostly same but requires greater technical control

### How it works
- you are changing your "tone" - the unique qualities of your voice
- tone is partly physical, but mostly is controlled in throat (larynx) and tongue (some control in lips)

features of voice fem:
- changing pitch - important, but pitch alone wont create a fem sound, and lower pitch is easier to maintain when combined with other features
- changing resonance

## What is involved with singing Barbershop?